A NETFLIX SERIES
At this hour?
-Who could it be?
-I'll go and see.
Who is it?
Good evening. We need you to come with us.
Where to?
Can we come in?
We don't want to wake the neighbors.
Excuse me.
Ursula?
What's going on?
-They want me to go back to Glória.
-Now? You can go tomorrow. I'll take you.
Don't worry, César.
I'll call you as soon as I can.
Want me to come with you?
It's probably an urgent recording
they want to broadcast.
I need to hurry.
What happened to the kid?
A land mine.
He lost his legs, one of his arms.
But they can't bury him
until his father arrives from France.
He moved there.
Would you like some sugar, sir?
No, no sugar, thank you.
I've been looking for you.
I just came to get coffee.
I need your help repairing a transistor.
Can you come with me and take care of it?
Thank you, Ermelinda.
Gonçalo was supposed to fix it,
but he was called in
because of the broadcast last night.
Is the translator here as well?
One of them will have
to explain what happened.
It definitely wasn't me.
I have little to contribute.
I didn't even touch that reel.
I took her some tea.
Mrs. Ursula was in a hurry
and had to rush to the studio.
Was she alone in the studio?
-Want me to pour it?
-Yes, please.
Yes.
Did you see anyone in the corridor?
I didn't see anyone.
Did you tell them we…
No.
I just said that I checked the reel
and gave it to the engineer.
If you didn't say anything,
there's no need to worry.
That's not true.
I didn't do my job.
I didn't even listen to the recording.
Many people have disappeared
for a lot less.
Is that what happened to the telegrapher?
No.
It was something else. She…
I don't know. She had an affair
with someone from RARET
and probably chose to leave.
-Who did she have an affair with?
-Does it matter?
No, you're right.
Did they say anything else?
Can you go home now?
Ask one of the women here to call me
and check that I made it home.
You don't have to go to war.
How can I not, Mom?
Many flee to France.
He might never return.
What if they catch him?
I'd rather have a deserter
than a dead man for a son.
-What about Carolina?
-She'll go with you.
If you think going to France
is the right thing.
-Is Isaura inside?
-She is.
But first Fernando
has something to tell you.
Fernando?
Not here.
What is it?
What's wrong?
I don't want to go to war.
No one does.
Tomorrow or the day after,
we'll pack our things and flee to Paris.
We have friends there
who can help us get jobs.
I can't speak the language.
But I'll wait for you.
You'll come back.
So many have gone and come back.
Nobody comes back okay, Carolina.
At least marry me.
I could leave a power of attorney.
Married people have more rights.
It can keep me
from going to the front line.
Fine, as you wish.
-Hey. You didn't get the beer, did you?
-Great music.
-It's great, isn't it?
-Yeah, it is.
You know,
this is also already going out of fashion.
Even the Beatles are moving towards
a different kind of vibe,
more of a psychedelic kind of rock.
-João.
-Big Mig, hey.
-Thank you.
-Listen. Pretty naughty.
João?
Did you smoke any liamba
when you were stationed in Africa?
They say it helps with the fear
when you're sent to the front line.
-I don't trust those who are never afraid.
-Depends on the situation.
Lots of them come back
with serious anxiety disorders.
And the brave come back dead.
Yeah.
Do you know a poem called
"A Recipe for a Hero"?
No.
It goes, "Take a man
Made of nothing, like we are"
"A full-sized man"
"Soak his flesh, slowly
In a sharp, irrational certainty"
"As intense as hatred or hunger"
"Then, near the end
Wave a flag, sound a bugle"
"Serve him up dead"
Reinaldo Ferreira.
Well… what do you want to listen to next?
-Something cheerful.
-Cheerful, yeah.
Something cheerful because that now was…
I also have… We can listen to it later.
-May I?
-Come in, João.
-I'd like to learn how to develop photos.
-Whenever you want.
Was this party at RARET too?
On the Fourth of July.
Mia.
You know her?
Yeah, we met in Lisbon.
João.
The passports will be here in two days.
I won't need them.
Ready?
Not sure.
I'd be more worried if you said you were.
Do you know why she left?
Hey, Mr. Engineer João Vidal!
Come here. We need to clean
the head of the player.
It's good!
One second.
I'm coming.
Good morning.
What are you doing at RARET, Dad?
You're going to work like that,
with your shirt all wrinkled?
I fell asleep on the couch,
listening to the radio.
If you returned your mother's calls,
you'd know that I'm in town
for the funeral of a local soldier.
We're all very worried about you.
I survived a war.
I can survive a few months
in the countryside.
I know you've been seen drinking
almost every night at the Gado Bravo Inn.
Many people I know go there.
Hope you haven't made a fool of yourself.
Never.
Would you like some coffee?
I can make some, or we can go to--
Get dressed. I want you beside me
at the memorial service.
I start work in an hour.
You've been excused.
Take a shower and put on a dark suit.
Are you staying home today?
I was told not to go into work.
Go inside.
My boy!
My baby boy!
This is all your fault!
Let's get this over with.
This is full of communist propaganda.
You never mention
those two years in Angola.
In your letters, you never said
what was happening there.
We did what we were trained to do.
You didn't have to go.
I did what I was supposed to do, Dad.
Your mother will never forgive me.
It was the Soviets
who corrupted the darkies.
Them and the Americans.
The Cold War
is taking place in Africa too.
Fortunately, those people have no idea
how to think for themselves.
Salazar has the Americans
eating out of his hand because of RARET
and Lajes Air Force Base in the Azores.
If we end the concession,
they can't refuel planes
in the middle of the Atlantic.
He can only play that card once.
But no one wants that.
The Americans have to be our allies,
not our enemies. The enemy is in Moscow.
If I ever become president of the Council…
Is that a possibility?
Salazar is not going to last forever.
And the Americans just assured me
that I have their support.
Do they have that much influence?
We'll have to wait and see.
The old man is a problem
because his hatred of communism
is not very different
from his hatred of capitalism.
What the country needs right now
is economic change.
Try to come to Lisbon this weekend
to visit your mother.
And behave yourself.
-Good morning.
Can I have a double espresso, please?
If coffee didn't make me so jumpy,
I'd drink it to see if it wakes me up.
Why's that? Did you have a bad night too?
Yeah.
Fernando's leaving today.
You know what the worst thing is
about Africa?
It's the weather.
But people from Glória
are used to the heat,
so he won't even notice.
Why doesn't anyone talk
about what's going on there?
-It feels like it's all one big secret.
-It's war.
All wars are probably the same.
He'll come back. Don't worry.
-See you later.
-That's a husky voice. That's a--
-What's this you're listening to?
Go on, come in.
Come in and close the door.
We just received some new music reels.
We're making a copy for the boys.
I like this song. Jacqueline Taïeb.
And that one… That one's next.
It's for us.
Right?
Carolina?
Sir.
A girl as pretty as you
shouldn't look so sad.
Remember that you're not alone.
You can count on me for anything you need.
Yes, sir, I know.
Carolina?
We have to go, honey. Come on.
Where were you?
I went to see Anne.
You're friends with the American now?
We're in the middle of nowhere.
I need friends.
You have me. Isn't that enough?
I'm going to go get dinner ready.
Is that the blouse
I brought you from Lisbon?
Yes.
My wife comes home,
and I don't even get a kiss?
Please, Ramiro, don't.
Don't? Why not? We're all alone.
But I don't want to.
What about me?
-Don't you care what I want?
-I don't want to.
I said I don't want to, Ramiro.
Ramiro…
Be quiet!
Ramiro, I said I don't want to.
I don't want to!
-Please, Ramiro.
-Shut up!
Ramiro!
Do you want to see something cool?
Look at this.
Look at that.
Have you ever wondered
what they're talking about?
I don't care.
I keep my nose clean, and I do my job.
Were they hard on you?
A little.
They asked me a few questions.
If I were guilty,
it wouldn't have been nice at all.
You think it was the translator?
It had to be her.
These foreigners, they're all whores.
They sell themselves
to the highest bidder.
Mia too?
They told me that she was seeing
someone here at RARET.
You… I knew
there was something between you two.
I would love to help you out, João,
but we weren't that close.
It's simple. The negative goes in here.
You just adjust the paper to the enlarger.
Did they let you build a darkroom,
or do they not know?
I asked James for permission.
You let the printing paper burn,
and…
-Can I take a look?
-Sure.
You place the paper in the developer,
and this is where the magic happens
and the image comes through.
When you think the density is right,
you place it in the stop bath.
-Gonçalo.
-What about him?
I thought he didn't know Mia very well.
Mia? I would say
he probably knew her too well.
Lastly, you place it in the fixer.
The name says it all.
And then run it under the tap
to remove all the chemicals.
Tomé, another one, please.
-Good afternoon.
-Afternoon.
An express ticket to Lisbon, please.
The tickets cost ten escudos.
Thank you.
-Look, it's about to leave.
-I know.
Have a safe trip.
-Let us know how you are.
-I'll write you.
This isn't right.
Be brave, kid.
We're very proud of you.
Okay, it's time to go.
Son…
Here.
Take this for luck.
And don't forget
I'm right here waiting for you.
We should have run away.
LISBON
We found him.
What are the Special Forces doing here?
They brought in a deserter.
That'll be me one day.
It's not too long till we go home.
I saw you reading
the propaganda we seized.
I was curious.
I've been watching you.
They told us to be careful around you,
given who your father is.
But sons aren't always
the same as their fathers.
If you're still curious,
I have more stuff that you can read.
Carolina?
Carolina!
Fernando?
Help me!
I'm telling them everything.
Please don't do that.
You'll make it worse
and get into an even bigger mess.
I'll ask them not to say anything
to my husband.
He'll find out eventually.
I know you're scared,
but there's no point in ruining your life
because of a reel.
-Your husband--
-I don't care about him.
I don't want to go to jail!
Nobody is going to hurt you.
They were hard on you
so that you would be afraid.
But if you talk,
they'll make you the scapegoat.
That's going to happen anyway.
You have to help me.
You know people.
Your father was in charge
of PIDE for many years.
I know how these things work.
That's why I'm telling you to keep quiet.
Forget it. I won't take any chances.
Just keep quiet
and wait for this to sort itself out!
Tomorrow I'll come to Lisbon,
and we'll talk.
Why are you talking to me like that?
João, was it you?
Did you switch the reel?
How could you even think that?
That doesn't make any sense.
I will not risk my life for you.
I'll go to Lisbon and talk to her.
There's no need. I'll take care of it.
Ursula is scared, but she's harmless.
Don't let your feelings
for the girl cloud your judgment.
I'll take care of it.
Just do what you have to do at RARET.
Of course it was.
Can I get a coffee, please?
Do you mind if I borrow your newspaper
to take a quick look at the car section?
-Go ahead.
-Thank you.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
What are you looking for?
You're not going to find anything.
Ursula--
Sir!
They're fabricating a story
to accuse me of spying.
What else did Adam tell you?
Nothing else.
But it's enough to know what's coming.
Was it the Americans, seeking revenge?
No. I don't know.
It will make you look guilty.
César, I won't sit around,
waiting for PIDE to come and get me.
I'll go with you.
I have the keys to the farm.
We can go to Minho
until things quiet down.
They won't quiet down.
If you come with me,
you'll lose everything.
I'll take my chances.
César. This way.
-Ursula Kowalski? Agent Brito. PIDE.
-I didn't do anything. Let me go.
-Come with me.
-You can't just take her without--
-It's just a few questions.
-César.
Where are you taking her?
Is it to the headquarters?
I didn't do anything!
Please!
I…
I haven't done anything.
What happens now depends on you.
Who hired you to switch the recording?
Who is your handler in Portugal?
No one.
I didn't do anything.
But… I think I know
who it might have been.
Who?
Give me a name, and I'll let you go.
João Vidal.
He's an engineer.
He was with me in the studio.
I'm sure he switched the reel.
She ratted on one of ours.
There was no other choice.